.Dd June 14, 2019 
.Dt VF1 1
.Os All Operating Systems
.Sh NAME
.Nm VF-1 
.Nd Command line gopher client.  High speed, low drag.
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm vf1 
.Op Fl h
.Op Fl \-bookmarks
.Op Fl \-tls
.Op Ar URL ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The options are as follows: 
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl h
.It Fl \-help
Display a short help message and exit.
.It Fl \-bookmarks
Open your bookmarks.
.It Fl \-tls
Open in TLS mode. That is, all the links you're following are expected
to go to TLS enabled servers. This is the equivalent of using the
.Ic tls
command to switch to TLS mode. ("Battloid mode engaged! Watch your
back in Gopherspace!")
.It Ar URL ...
The Gopher URLs to open. If you just supply a hostname, the standard
port is going to be used. The standard port is 70. If you provide more
than one URL, these are queued in a
.Em tour .
Use the
.Ic tour
command to go to the next tour stop.
.El
.Sh FILES
.\" the longest path name appearing in the list
.Bl -tag -width ~/.vf1-bookmarks.txt -compact
.It Pa ~/.vf1-bookmarks.txt
This file stores your bookmarks. Use
.Ic add
to add the current URL to your bookmarks. Feel free to edit the file
and rearrange the bookmarks using a text editor. This files is a
simple gopher map.
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
Visit the zaibatsu:
.Dl vf1 zaibatsu.circumlunar.space
.Sh SEE ALSO
Cross references and citations.
.Sh CONFORMING TO
.Nm
is a gopher client conforming to RFC 1436
.Aq Lk https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc1436 .
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Solderpunk
.Aq Mt solderpunk@sdf.org
.An Alex Schroeder
.Aq Mt alex@gnu.org
.An Joseph Lyman
.Aq Mt tfurrows@sdf.org
.An Adam Mayer
.Aq Lk https://github.com/phooky
.An Paco Estaban
.Aq Mt paco@onna.be
